there were a lot of fundamental
questions about Immigration and Refugee
policy that neither get asked by the
left wing nor the right wing I was in a
classroom not too long ago with a
professor whom I would characterize as
having a left-wing extremist position on
these issues and you know she would say
positive things about the situation for
Cambodian refugees in California or in
Canada she would make her argument that
unlimited numbers of these people should
be allowed to stay for unlimited amounts
of time that anything else was literally
a crime against humanity there was a
violation of their of their human rights
to ask them under any circumstances to
return to Cambodia even if they had
committed serious crimes such as joining
a gang getting involved with drug
dealing and murder those were case
studies we were studying in that class
so she was directly commenting on this
that it was crime against humanity to
ask a refugee to return to Cambodia
decades after the war had ended there
decades after they've had peace and
stability and rapid economic growth I
would raise questions that had simply
never arisen before that were shockingly
original her such as well your position
is it really what's best for Cambodia
she never thought about that
her left-wing position she only thought
in terms of can't even say Canada's
self-interest in terms of this
assumption that the role of the Western
world is to receive and absorb infinite
numbers of refugees and migrants the
more the merrier and to point to often
very incoherent economic arguments that
this creates more jobs that this is
economically positive for Western
countries where they talk about England
or Canada or Germany or or what-have-you
and you just ask something as simple as
that
well is that what's economically good
for Cambodia there's stumps and this is
a life long specialist this is one with
a PhD who goes to someone who goes to
international conferences on these
issues and she had absolutely never
looked at the issue from that
perspective this is not the only exam
full of a debate I had with her during
that semester I did a lot of the talking
it was a year-long symposium so the
students were supposed to be talking for
several hours but very few of the
students had anything to say sever
myself very few of the self-confidence
to stand up to a frankly hysterical
left-wing extremist professor on those
issues but I did have a lot to say and
not all of it in disagreement with her
but very very often so it's easy to get
a white Western liberal to recognize
that brain drain is a problem brain
drain for example a small country like
Jamaica generation after generation has
its most highly educated people running
away to work in Toronto and Toronto
benefits from it now you may be a
left-wing liberal who simply wants to
celebrate this is it isn't it great that
Toronto has a big Jamaican community I
used to live just down the street from a
huge Jamaican community in Toronto
Jamaicans on one side and Brazilian
Portuguese in the other I grew up in an
intensely multicultural society but if
you simply ask oh but is this good for
Jamaica what are the impacts for Jamaica
already you've shifted the nature of the
conversation a very fundamental way now
the economic arguments in favor of
unlimited labor mobility unlimited
acceptance of new immigrants at limited
acceptance of new refugees they tend to
distract you from the parasitic role
this puts wealthy Western countries in
why is it so economically productive for
Canada to have nurses arrive and work in
Canada from the Philippines the
Philippines being a a much poorer
country well the Government of Canada
doesn't have to pay for their education
the Government of Canada doesn't have to
pay for their health care during their
birth and early years of life a
Government of Canada doesn't have to pay
for their retirement benefits they get
in effect from the government's
perspective in terms of the public purse
Canada is in a parasitic relationship
to the Philippines and we are siphoning
off a lot of their most highly educated
most up early mobile people to come and
contribute to our economy it's still
instead of the Philippines economy so
yeah this is a problem for Jamaica this
is a problem for the Philippines this is
a problem for Cambodia this is a
fundamental problem in the nature of how
Liebherr markets link the first world to
the third world right and Refugee policy
only makes it more extreme Singapore is
a very wealthy country I mean certainly
by Asian standards about international
standards also in principle under our
1951 United Nations Convention on
refugee policy every single homosexual
in Singapore homosexual lesbian etc has
the right to immediately relocate to
Canada and live in Canada in perpetuity
permanently because they are refugees
because the government of Singapore
persecutes them has refused they do not
have sufficient human rights in
Singapore and we could also choose Saudi
Arabia as an example okay so Canada
could very easily absorb all of the
homosexuals from Singapore where we have
a big country and were also I mean
culturally in terms of the level of
education it's much much easier for a
Singaporean refugee to integrate into
Canada's economy than it is for an
Afghanistan refugee or what have you or
Cambodian and I just gotta say I'm
choosing examples here so far where I
actually if anything of a positive bias
towards them I rather like Singaporeans
I rather like Cambodians I used to live
in Cambodia myself and so on it's not
the case that I'm against the Cambodians
living in Canada I'm really questioning
the fundamental assumptions that are
basically on challenge today by the
entire establishment whether neoliberal
neoconservative or indeed left-wing
extremists they all share fundamental
set of assumptions that I think are
fundamentally wrong is it in Singapore's
best interest for all of these
dissidents all of these people who might
as artists as intellectuals as political
leaders challenge and change
Singapore's government is it in
Singapore's
interest for all of them to escape to
Canada to form an migr community a
refugee suburb of Toronto do we want to
do that with the whole world because
those are the laws we have in the books
right now now there are other factors in
selecting who actually makes that trip
and who doesn't with the Syrian refugee
crisis
the average refugee is every call was
earning about two thousand US dollars
per year now again this is partly
because the value of those earnings
would be much much greater in the local
economy than when they're converted into
US dollars and made to buy foreign
services the cost of getting on a
Smuggler's boat to try to make the
crossing from Syria to Europe about six
thousand dollars on average US dollars
okay so you're not getting a random
sample of Syrian refugees arriving in
France or Germany or Italy or Greece or
what have you
all right you are not getting a random
sampling of Cambodians who turn up in
Canada not getting random sampling of
lotions you're not getting a random
sampling of Burmese refugees those are
all groups
I've known face to face those are
languages I've studied and spoken to
varying census their people have
interviewed face to face we refugees for
those communities these are things that
was really interesting for many many
years and the things I've read about in
formal reports studies research what
have you so so many so many countries if
anything I'm positively biased in these
examples I'm choosing but the policies
we have in place are still disastrous
and they're disastrous for the people
themselves if the Canadian government
wanted to help refugees from Myanmar
Burma what everyone say you can set up
and operate a camp right on the edge of
Burma the Thai Burmese border on any
other borders and provide those people
with food and shelter and medical care
that doesn't divorce them from their
native language their native economy
their native Society and leaves them
poised in a place to move back to their
homeland the minute political conditions
allow it and of course that is the
traditional refugee
the internment camp such as now
surrounds Syria I mean Jordan and
Lebanon and what have you if you have
this humanitarian impulse to help
refugees that's where you do it as close
to the crisis as possible and all the
while enabling those people to militate
for political change to remain a part of
that social networks of family you know
yeah if you divorce people even from the
family they grew up in whether it's in
Cambodia or Singapore or Syria forced
them to learn a totally new language you
force them to join your economy at the
lowest rung this misrepresentation that
you're you're really helping people by
recruiting them into being um you know
illiterate hotel cleaners in California
remember reading one account of a
Cambodian refugee who was shuffled off
to do the lowest level of factory labor
in New Zealand you know he didn't speak
a word of English she was put in an
airplane and found himself in this alien
country speaking in alien language and
he was earning okay money he was set up
with a job of the New Zealand government
by the refugee board working and uh
working in a factory he was resentful as
hell
he didn't regard to positively regarded
as a pretty awful experience he was made
into a member of the oppressed
proletariat that the left-wing are
supposed to care about right recruiting
Cambodian refugees and Syrian refugees
and what-have-you into the lowest rung
of your economy as a developed Western
nation to be exploited in a society that
they don't really understand in a legal
system they don't understand where they
don't have the same rights they don't
even have the same ability to complain
but someone born and raised do just this
is not a morally good thing and the
simple way the left-wing represents it
to be now whether they can even find
employment is another matter I just saw
statistic that I believe 90s sorry sir
sorry I think was 86 percent
yeah 86 percent of the Afghan refugees
in Germany never found employment remain
permanently employable they were there
assess for memory but anyway I did you
see that stat recently many of them of
course failed find employment and failed
integrative introduced what they wanted
to do but yet the purpose of refugee
policy under the 1951 UN Convention
wasn't to integrate people it
wasn't to employ them in your factories
it wasn't to employ them mopping the
floors of a hotel lobby the point of
refugee policy was to provide refuge and
that really is a high and pure moral
cause that governments the world ought
to care passionately about but again if
you want to provide refuge really think
about the meaning of the word refuge
refuge is not an airplane ticket to Los
Angeles it's not refuge really is
setting up a camp with medical care and
food and shelter and education for
children right on the Syrian border
right on the Cambodian border right on
the Burmese border
wherever the crisis is that people are
fleeing from right and it's it's
providing them with that refuge so they
can return to that Society and so they
still engage there remain engaged with
that society and their prospects in
terms of their employment their
education their language the point is
not to assimilate them into Western
society that's ultimately a very strange
kind of capitalist predatory behavior of
hey let's set up a bunch of recruitment
camps around the world so that the
poorest and you know poorest and weakest
you know most helpless people can be
recruited to be less than minimum wage
laborers in Western countries and the
way they're recruited this is the
criteria this led by is bizarre and of
course when you leave the selection up
to instead we're gonna recruit refugees
on the basis of whoever can pay the most
in bribes to illegal you know human
smuggling rankness the results you get
are even worse of course that's not the
case with an example like Singapore it
wouldn't be the case with homosexuals
fleeing from Saudi Arabia either if
every homosexual in Singapore flees to
Canada which they have the right to do
and there are it's not a hypothetical
example II do have homosexuals in Canada
or Singaporean citizens who came as
refugees for this reason which is a
fascinating case study again okay they
transform Singapore by their absence
they have subtracted themselves from the
social struggle in a way there's
tremendous long-term consequences there
have been periods of ethnic cleansing in
Myanmar where
the government of Myanmar was basically
trying to exterminate a whole ethnic
group of people should Canada on mass
receive those people into Canada find
them factory employment or other minimum
wage or worse the men would try and
integrate them into Canadian society
believe it or not we would then be
participating in genocide we would be
assisting the government of Myanmar in
making that ethnic group disappear
really think about it that's not refuge
and I know you may think it's helping
them yes on a person-to-person basis
they will thank you they will say well
I'm so happy I now have this apartment
in Canada instead of either being
homeless or fleeing into the jungle or
being in a ravine I recognize that but
you have to think about the meaning and
purpose of refugee law and how it's
supposed to help the countries these
people are fleeing from all right you're
not going to help a persecuted ethnic
minority by wiping them out of the
history of the country they're they're
fleeing from and you're not gonna help
homosexuals militate to transform the
society they're fleeing from whether
that Saudi Arabia or Singapore by in
this sense giving them refuge where we
don't mean refuge we mean immigration
with a mask put on it we mean
integration and assimilation into a
totally foreign society and totally
foreign economy for reasons that have
nothing to do with helping that cause or
helping those people or helping the
future of that country all right now my
heart goes out to anyone who's bothered
to engage in this debate one of those I
said my first day in that class was that
I felt that this was a black box issue
this was an issue sorry black boxes an
image comes from aircraft this is an
issue that in a democratic society we
had proved we were incapable of debating
we were we were incapable of discussing
publicly and so democracies had
basically taken up undemocratic
positions on this issue most Western
democracies have a more or less covert
system of points for how they select who
becomes an immigrant's who becomes a
refugee and what benefits they received
and this is kept out of the public's
attention and kept away from
parliamentary decision-making to the
greatest extent possible because it's
at the end of the day we literally have
Christian missionaries standing around
in a refugee camp in Myanmar selecting
who's gonna live it who's gonna die it's
really odious and nobody wants to think
about it again whether it's Myanmar or
Africa I'm using examples I'm more
familiar with and we do have situations
where we have oppressed groups within
Canada who are in much much worse
conditions than refugees who've arrived
from foreign countries I met and
interviewed a family from Myanmar so
they were persecuted ethnic minority so
they're not Burmese but they're from
Myanmar and they were in Canada and they
had lived there long enough to know in
the park and I was living in a
Saskatchewan the most hated ethnic group
the group that had to face the most
racism from taxi drivers and employers
and over the site were our native people
the Cree the Egypt why the den a with
several other groups there but our our
First Nations are American Indians as
Americans would say right and I was
asking them you know their whole story
how they got selected out from the camp
put an airplane end up in Canada and of
what benefits that were and they were
getting real benefits handed out to them
by the Canadian government free
education and a free house gabbert
Canada literally gave them a house in
downtown Regina the capital of the
province were course they had access to
education and employment and all these
benefits but the house was free now not
only is the case that native-born
Canadians do not get these amazing
social services that were given to these
Burmese migrants for no reason they for
reasons they couldn't explain themselves
I mean they themselves puzzled that they
sat there and talked about they said
yeah it's a strange system isn't it you
had to look across the train tracks to
the situation of our own native people
or indigenous people and the terrible
struggle they've been in to have any
land of their own to have any access to
education or opportunity or employment
their own and I asked them I asked these
refugees face to face in this interview
I said well how do you feel but the fact
that you know we have poor people here
we have poor native people who've been
here for thousands of years before there
were any white people in this country
and our government doesn't give them the
opportunity that our
to you the government gave you better
opportunities better benefits than we
ever give our own native people if we
handed out free houses in the capital
cities of our country to our native
people instead of doing what we did to
them over the last 50 years if we gave
them the benefits of a refugee policy
over a period of 50 years
their whole socio economic position in
the country would be fundamentally
different radically indescribably
different from from what it is today in
Canada right some of you know what I'm
talking about some of you don't and it
was a really strange moment to sit there
with this person who'd benefited so much
from the largesse of Canadian refugee
policy and hear him just say sadly I
don't know I don't understand it it
makes no sense okay so even the people
who benefit most from this have to sit
there sadly and say yeah this is really
kind of a twisted lottery that doesn't
make any sense
now the other the other concerns that
are expressed by both the traditional
left the traditional right some of them
I do share having next-door neighbors
who are Cambodian or Lotion both being
Buddhist cultures or majority Buddhist
cultures is not the same as having
neighbors from Afghanistan or Saudi
Arabia it's not there are differences
having neighbors who are Chinese is not
the same as having neighbors who are
Iraqi it's not.you know there's no point
in pretending that it's the same simply
because they may all legally fall under
the heading of refugees or they may
legally fall under the heading of
migrants of immigrant policy right one
of the things that haunts me most about
this in a country the size of Canada is
that you see the people in our own
government don't have any of the
expertise they need to handle these
issues they don't know Laos and Lotion
culture and the Lotion language the way
I do they don't know Cambodia the way I
do and you know if you just spend a
little bit of time and I spent years
doing raising this stuff you know the
people who were chosen to come back from
those conflicts they're not normal
people they're not an average or cross
section of the Lotion population of the
Cambodian population
disproportionally they're people who
rolled up their sleeves and did killing
for us
meaning the CIA you know that if you
just spend some time hanging out of
lotion buddhist temples again the
political profile of who came back and
it still talked about a kind of coded
way on cbc radio you know a large number
of these refugees being resettled from
afghanistan are people who were
translators or assistance or mercenaries
or killers who worked with the american
side who worked with the canadian side
in our long or decade-long conflict in
afghanistan right
so it's not a random selection and again
this gets at fundamental ethical problem
of the meaning of refuge itself refuge
is not supposed to be a reward for
military service right it's not supposed
to be integration into canada for
everyone who proved they were willing to
kill on behalf the CIA or do the
translation welcome behalf of the CIA or
whatever their job was in america's
never ending wars overseas and again
those people transform their country by
their absence the fact that we take away
from Jamaica and the Philippines and all
these other countries they're most
highly educated people and in many cases
the people who are most inclined to be
dissonant the people are most inclined
to militate for real cultural and
political change to transform the
societies they're from we are
transforming those societies in in a
different way we're changing the fate
and future of those countries by
integrating those people into the
suburbs of Toronto instead of leaving
them to work for a better and brighter
future in their own country and of
course we are in a very real sense
neglecting the opportunity and I think
the moral obligation to present
meaningful economic development and
opportunity to oppressed and downtrodden
groups within Canada such as our First
Nations we situation in Victoria where
we had Filipino immigrants
being brought in to work just at a donut
shop in a coffee shop and the newspaper
started complaining about it because you
look at the actual laws the laws are
supposed to prevent that we're not
supposed to be bringing in unskilled
labor for that level of job were
supposed to be giving those jobs to
Canadians and there are elements of
racism and they're elements of
authoritarianism in the workplace to put
it that way the fact of the matter is
that most Canadian employers who might
own a small donut shop or coffee shop
they know that if they bring over a
Filipino who just barely speaks English
and doesn't know how to exercise their
rights they're going to be an almost
silent and unquestioning employee and
it'll be a very different challenge of
employer to employee to go out and
recruit people from a native Reservation
to go out and recruit people who've born
and raised in Canada know their rights
and have some sense of the dignity in
the workplace they deserve and what have
you
right so the concept of providing refuge
to people in need is so morally pure
that nobody wants to question it and yet
if you actually go and visit a refugee
camp it's filthy and hopeless and sorted
and don't even get me started I could
talk for another 30 minutes and if you
look at the actual system of how people
are selected out of those camps and end
up being integrated in a Canadian
society that's even more disturbing so
we have a situation to say it's a black
box situation where I think nobody on
the left and nobody on the right wanted
to really look at how these systems work
and what the implications are for
destination countries or source
countries in immigration or refugee
policy nobody wants to take
responsibility for it and on the
contrary what has emerged is a really
insincere economic rationale which is
simply that accepting refugees increases
GDP or accepting new immigrants
increases GDP this is true but simply
having more human beings increases GDP
right
the this is really fallacious reasoning
and I've heard that presented at London
School of Economics lectures with no
sense of humor to an audience where I
think 90% of the people in the audience
know just how insincere it is say oh
well more migrants and more refugees
means more GDP therefore it's justified
yeah this is actually a completely
fallacious argument but it's true too
that the basic standards and practice of
refugee policy emerged after the shock
of the Holocaust
as I called the big UN declaration is
1951 the main policy on that then the
post-world War two period they were
really just thinking of a circumstance
such as the rise and fall of the Nazi
Empire which was brief and of
populations like the Jews of Europe that
were being persecuted but that were
almost an invisible minority within
Europe who could as vary who could as
easily move from Germany to Denmark and
be a part of that economy and and so on
who could escape persecution and then
after the presumed oppressive regime
collapses in a few years go back again
okay this was never thought of this was
never conceived of the issues were never
thought through on a global scale and it
was neither thought through in terms of
what is the benefit for destination
countries such as Canada nor what really
is the interest for source countries
whether that's Singapore Saudi Arabia or
Cambodia